…and this video from this guy was, objectively,
anti-semitic.
And I decided, y'know, I am not going to get
offended, I'm going to try to do something
positive.
Being offended is a behavior.
It's not an instinct and it's not a feeling
in the sense that the immediate sensation
of pain is just a feeling or, um, responding
in a negative way to the smell of bleach is
an unbidden, instinctual reaction.
Although people seem to cultivate the illusion
that they take offense at things just as immediately
and unthinkingly as they have those kinds
of feelings and reactions.
Really, what we're doing as adults, in being
offended, is making a choice.
We're consciously choosing to engage in a
behavior and in a kind of "social display",
anthropologically speaking.
I think, for the most part, people get offended
to try to declare to the world who they are,
what kind of person they are.
As behaviors go, getting offended is really
pretty counterproductive.
Complaining, I think, is meaningful, and complaining
can be constructive, and can change people's
lives for the better.
And complaining can really share important
information (in a professional context, in
a personal context, in all kinds of contexts).
I think learning to complain in a way that
doesn't denigrate people or offend people
or create enemies needlessly, I think that's
really an important part of being an adult.
It should be needless to say that the purpose
of this video is not to create drama.
I actually had a positive experience recently…
this is going to sound a bit bizarre.
I saw a video here on Youtube, created by
one of my fellow vegans, somebody who I only
know because he's also a vegan activist, [he]
talks about the philosophy and praxis of veganism.
And this video from this guy was objectively
anti-semitic.
And, y'know, I had a choice, 'cause like I
say, getting offended is not an instinct,
it's not instant, it's not immediate, you
have a choice.
And I decided, y'know, I am not going to get
offended, I'm going to try to do something
positive.
And this guy, who I'm not going to name, but
this other Youtube creator, he actually wrote
to me about some of his other uploads, where
he was talking about First Nations.
So, First Nations, Native Americans, indigenous
people.
And those, also, in another way, kind of were
offensive, although his heart was in the right
place on the latter issue, um, y'know, he
was only trying to say things that were anti-colonialist
and anti-genocide and what-have-you.
But still, y'know, it was a bit crass and
offensive.
And again, I decided, look, I'm going to do
something positive.
I'm not going to get offended.
And I'm not going to tell this guy that I'm
offended, because that's just counterproductive.
So I tried to address what I'd called the
form and content of the problem, and what
I perceived to be the problem is that this
guy, like most of us on Youtube, he gives
unscripted, spontaneous, rants.
And that's what I do, in case you can't tell,
this video is completely unscripted, unrehearsed
and unprepared.
So I wrote to the guy in response to his having
mentioned to me his recent comments on First
Nations, and this is what I said.
Look, man, my opinion is worth next-to-nothing,
and the internet is a place where everyone
can live their dreams to a limited extent
(within digital walls, so to speak).
I think there are real limits to the stream-of-consciousness
format you've chosen (and that you use most
of the time, not all of the time, in your
self-defined genre of videos).
Stream-of-consciousness only works when you're
talking about things you're already deeply
familiar with (perhaps even things that you're
overly familiar with).
Most ordinary people can do a solid stream-of-consciousness
(stand-up comedy) routine on why they hate
their job, because it's something they often
think about, and know about, etc.
Similar spontaneous, amorphous commentary
on the history of First Nations (Native Americans,
etc.) is not going to work out for you.
With that being said, I'm not discouraging
you from talking about this stuff, but I think
you need to check your head [to lapse into
rap slang from 1989] and think about the extent
to which you need to make changes in form
to reflect different types of content.
You had a video recently where you veer into
anti-Semitic hysteria.
I don't think you intended to, I don't think
you planned to, and I think that you might
have to watch the video pretty carefully to
figure out just how bad you make yourself
sound, given what you actually said in that
dialogue, i.e., how casually you claim that
a Jewish conspiracy is controlling the world,
etc.
Some things you can rant about without preparation,
without structure, without a script, etc.,
because you know those things deeply.
Other things are a stretch.
You can stretch and you should stretch.
Should you make a video about First Nations?
Sure, but it's a stretch.
I think you couldn't really make such a video
(or podcast) just "off the cuff", in the way
that you rant about subjects you already know
overly-well.
You could, however, watch a given documentary
(from APTN, for instance) and then film your
reactions/thoughts to that documentary.
That's not exactly a ton of research, but
it is still a level of structure and preparation
above and beyond stream-of-consciousness improv.
I say this because most of my own videos are
improvised also (however, for me, complaining
about Sanskrit is something I can do off-the-cuff,
because I have more than 10 years of salient
experience, etc.).
I don't think you can reasonably expect to
react to major questions in world politics
in the same way that you react to Joe Rogan.
[Joe Rogan is the name of a stand-up comedian,
and pretty much all of the vegans hate the
guy.]
[Coming back to this letter.]
And your recent anti-semitic remarks (that
you may not perceive as anti-semitic yourself)
are a good example of the type of tightrope
you end up walking if you tread into this
type of stuff heedlessly.
That's my advice --and I realize (with all
due humility) that it was unasked for.
That's the end of my message.
And that humility is not phony.
I think you really do need to be humble when
you're giving people advice they haven't asked
for, and when you're telling somebody something
they don't want to hear.
In this case, I'm telling somebody, "Look,
you may not even be aware of it, but, you've
made comments that are objectively anti-Semitic,
and that other people (including other Jewish
people) are going to perceive as anti-Semitic
and react to negatively, and it's going to
have consequences for you.
But the whole tone of this is helpful.
And it's trying to share helpful information.
And the point is not that I'm offended.
And again, I ask: as a behavior, what would
be the point of being offended?
The message I wrote to this guy, it has a
point.
And it's also giving him the benefit of the
doubt.
It is saying, "Look, I'm willing to assume
that your heart's in the right place, I'm
willing to assume that you don't really mean
to be anti-Semitic, you don't really mean
to be saying things that are kind of offensive
or insensitive about First Nations.
Now, it's possible, [that] I could give him
the benefit of the doubt, and he could write
back to me, and reveal that he's a member
of a crazy anti-Semitic cult or political
organization, and he could write back denouncing
me for being a part of a Jewish conspiracy.
You know, you talk to people on the internet,
you talk to people face-to-face in real life:
you don't know what you're going to get.
I've met people in formal, academic contexts
who believed in crazy, anti-Semitic hysteria
and conspiracy theories --that would be a
different video.
The internet is dark, real life is even darker,
you can deal with all that stuff face-to-face.
Um, but, you know, again, why be offended?
I chose to do something positive, to say something
positive.
And in this case, the story has a happy ending.
His reaction was really positive.
He wrote back to me appreciatively, and he
said, "Look, you know, you really gave me
some things to think about, and I'm going
to have to look at that video again, and think
about it, and this is, y'know, useful… he
said it was basically useful for him to reconsider
the way he's making videos, and the way he's
making political statements, and wading into
really difficult and dangerous political waters.
Maybe without a lot of forethought and a lot
of consideration as to the consequences, y'know,
for how people perceive him and otherwise.
So that went great.
That's a positive experience connected to
anti-Semitism, where I addressed something,
and, y'know, some small good came out of it
in the world.
Now, y'know, uh, I've had the opposite experience
many times, where people choose to get offended
at me, rather than communicate anything meaningful,
rather than even thinking through and talking
about what it is they're offended by.
I think one of the tragedies of the internet,
and what it's done to western culture, is
that it has rewarded people for the behavior
of making a display of their own moral superiority.
And the point of this message that I just
read you is not to say, "I'm morally superior
to you because you're anti-Semitic and I'm
not"; the point was not to say, "I'm morally
superior to you because I have formal education
on First Nations' issues and I'm better-informed
and better-read about First Nations' politics,
and therefore what you said is crass and offensive,
and what I say is terribly refined and sophisticated".
None of that, because that would not serve
a purpose, that would be self-defeating (and
so on).
And also, again, it's not false humility:
there's a level on which I don't really believe
it, just in the sense that, look, I mean,
everything I know, although learning it was
hard work, other people can learn, too, in
a pretty short span of time, if they do similar
hard work, and I encourage people to do that
kind of hard work.
Right, man, I'm going to end it there.
I just think we all need to really think about
what it means to be offended, why we do it,
what the objective is, and, um, in terms of
broadcasting on the internet, what's the audience
for that?
What's the positive outcome supposed to be?